---
layout: post
title: VPNs are overhyped
author: Phillip Kittelson
categories: cybersecurity
tags: [ cybersecurity, VPN, privacy, encryption, ]
date: 2023-02-20 08:50 -0500
image: 
alt: VPN
published: false
---

VPNs are horribly overhyped, and the hysteria will not die down any time soon no thanks to the thousands of YouTube videos sponsored by VPN companies promising to be the panacea for privacy and cybersecurity anytime and anywhere. VPN companies promise to prevent virus infections, [ find other claims here].
Don’t get me wrong, VPNs certainly have a place and a use. While there are other secondary benefits to VPNs, the _primary_ purpose of a VPN is to _encrypt your network traffic over untrusted networks_.

So…what is an _untrusted network_? Well, it’s every other network other than your home WiFi and your on-premises network at work (probably). Let us talk about VPNs more in-depth here…

## Understand what a VPN is, and does
A VPN is a program, or app (3rd party or built in), which tells your computer or device to send all network traffic (data leaving the device by its network cards) to it instead of your devices normal exit (called a gateway). Then that VPN program encrypts the data it receives, and sends it out of your network to the IP address of a VPN concentrator. This VPN concentrator is either the network of the VPN you are paying for, or the concentrator of your company for an in-house solution.

You probably don't need a VPN while browsing from the privacy of your own home. Unless you leave your home network wide-open for anyone to access, have a weak password, or weak securtiy, a VPN connection shouldn't be necessary from your couch to your bank. Your bank should be using industry-standard encryption and security in the first place.

VPNs do have the ability to make sites you browse see you connecting from a different location from where you physically are. That's because the location your connection exists out onto the interent (without being encrypted by the VPN) is from the IP address of the VPN concentrator. This can be helpful if you are trying to access content retricted for your physical location. Streaming services, like Netflix and Amazon Prime do restrict shows and movies, and often offer up content licensed in the country you're in. If you are traveling overseas, and you want to watch the US version of a show, a VPN could be a good solution for you.

## Understand limitations of VPNs

### The Weakest Link
VPNs are only as secure as the weakest encryption along its path. Your encrypted connection only exists between your device and the VPN concentrator, and not beyond. Unless the website, service, email, or other data you are retrieving is located within the network of your VPN provider (and it's not) all connections from your VPN provider and your destination are at the mercy of the security established by the server at the end. Using the example of your bank again, you're probably safe.

### Records of your activity
While most VPN companies claim to not keep logs on your browser acivity and connections, recent reports show this is not always the case. VPN companies have been under increased pressure and scrutenty from authorities in foreign countires to retain logs of its user's activities. If a VPN is setup to act as a proxy, and resigns certificate used to establish secure connections to sites and servers going out of their network, they do have the ability to decrypt all traffic traversing your connection, and have the ability to capture and store that traffic.

### Block Bad Stuff
VPN companies have, if turned on, the ability to block connections to known risky sites. This is a great benefit, and provides an extra layer of security. However, not all malicious sites are flagged as malicoius.

Some VPN providers have peer-to-peer "friendly" servers, which allow connections from torrent and file sharing sites and services. The nature of torrent sites tend to have malicious contented masquerading as movie and tv show files. Connection to a torrent friendly VPN server will probably not prevent you from inadvertenly downloading something malicoius.

## Things to Consider when Picking a VPN Services
- Does the company include a log retention policy in their privacy policy?
- Does the VPN act as a proxy, allowing decryption of your traffic?
- What encryption options do they user?
- What country are their servers in? Most VPN companies allow you to select a country when establihisg a connnection, so if you have data which should not leave the U.S (i.e. Explort Controlled), or company proprietary data you do not want to be out of your control, making sure your conneciton isn't routed to a foreign nation is important. Laws in these countries often differ widely from that of the United States, and sometimes allow ready access by government agencies.